REPORTS TO: Senior Communications Advisor

 
Purpose of the Job:

Based in PSI Malawi Lilongwe office, Demand Creation Manager (RH) will be lead the Reproductive Health Program demand creation team in ensuring that demand for RH services is created and that targets are met


MAIN DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:

Develop PSI Malawi reproductive health SBCC strategy and operational plan in coordination with program team and align it with donor priorities.
Leads in development and implementation of PSI Malawi Youth focused demand creation strategies.
Lead in building a vibrant and responsive RH Demand Creation and Social Mobilization team.
Lead the development, testing and implementation of innovative demand creation approaches.
With support from the communications manager develop demand creation training manual and supporting job aides.
Initiates and participates in evaluation of targeted demand generation strategies and assessments activities with the goal of improving project outcomes.
Works with disability inclusion coordinator to develop strategies on sensitizing teams on inclusion and plans activities targeting persons living with disability.
Consolidates and provides input for weekly, monthly, and quarterly reports demonstrating progress and also highlighting key insights on demand creation strategies/approaches for scale up.
Lead documentation of program success stories to be shared with stakeholders including MoH and funding partners
Lead process of developing new demand creation materials, provider behavior materials and information dissemination tools, drawing on existing PSI and MoH resources.
Work with the MERL team to generate and use evidence in development of demand strategies.
Develop and cascade standard operating procedures for demand creation processes to standardize implementation.
Represent the department at national level in RH sub committees and TWGs
Coordinate with other external partners and stakeholders in creating demand creation strategies and implementing them
Coordinate with district and community structures in implementing demand creation activities


COMPETENCIES
Ability to manage multiple tasks and prioritize.
Excellent interpersonal and time management skills
Self-starter and effective team player
High levels of professionalism


THE BASICS:
At least a Bachelors’ degree in Public Health, Communication, Social Behavioral Change Communication or in any related field
A minimum of 3-5 years of experience in a communication or demand creation coordination or management capacity
Computer literate, extensive working experience in Word, Excel, Power-point, Outlook Express
Experience in report writing and documentation